[MUSIC]
In this video,
we're going to get a quick overview
of some of the options for sharing power.
BI reports.
We've created this fantastic content, and
chances are we want to
share it with colleagues.
So what are our options?
Well, in power BI desktop,
they're actually quite limited.
We can share the PBIX file itself,
much like we'd share an Excel workbook.
And in a small organization,
this might be fine.
Another option we have is
we can exported to pdf.
So if you click on your final tab and
come down to Export, there's the options.
Export PdF and there's my exported PDF.
You can see each page from the report
becomes a page in the pdf file, and
it looks pretty good.
This is great if you need a snapshot,
but we cannot filter or interact with
the data in anyway, so it is a little
bit limited coming back to my power.
BI report.
If you want to give users
an interactive experience,
probably your best bet is going to be
to publish it to the power BI service.
And that's what we're
going to look at next.
But before we published,
I'd like you to see what the power
BI service actually looks like.
So if you like to do this, come to your
browser and you're going to need to
type in www.powerbi.com and
this will bring you to the log in screen,
and from here you can sign in if
you have an educational or company,
sign in or
you can get a free trial license.
Once you have logged into power, BI you're
automatically come to your home page,
which gives you quick access to
your favorites and your frequents.
But when we publish content, we're going
to need to publish it to a workspace,
so let's see what they look like.
I'm going to come down on the left
workspaces and click to expand the panel,
and at the top you'll see my workspace.
Everybody has their own work space where
they can put their own private content.
You may also have been given access
to other workspaces, and of course,
you can create your own work spaces.
When you want to share content or
collaborate on content,
you're better off using
one of the app workspaces.
That's these workspaces rather
than your my workspace.
That's because nobody else has
access to your my workspace.
So if you go on long service, leave or
leave the company, they're not
going to be able to maintain or update
those reports to create a workspace.
You just click.
They'll create workspace button,
and here I can give it a name and
a description and.
If you'd like to work along with me,
just create a temporary workspace
called sales report or something.
And, I've already created it, So
I'm going to come back to work spaces.
And I'm going to select sales report.
Haven't added any content yet, but
this is where I'm going to publish
my sales report in a moment.
And if you don't have access to power,
BI service don't worry.
You can just watch this video,
if I'd like to be able to have other
people access the space that
we can collaborate together.
If you come to the access tab,
you can invite other people in
your organization or even outside.
The organization is guests to
collaborate in this workspace.
You'll just need to pop in their email
address and then you can also specify
their permissions, so That's a very,
very quick of yuan workspaces.
Let's now go back to power BI and
publish our report on
the Home Ribbon in Power BI desktop.
You will find a great big publish
button and went click on that.
It may ask you to save your report.
If you haven't really signed in, you'll
also be asked to sign into the service.
And then you'll be asked
to select the workspace.
You want to publish the report to.
And I'd like to publish
it to my sales reports.
I'm going to select that and
click the select button.
Once it's published the report,
you'll get a little success message, and
it will even give you, a hyperlinks.
You can navigate directly to
the report on the Power BI service.
We're actually going to
go in the manual way, so
I'm just going to close that and
coming back to my browser.
It might need a second to refresh,
but there it is, and
you'll notice that my report and
my data model my data actually
come in as two separate entities.
And that's great because it means I can
actually generate multiple reports using
the same data model.
So For example, if I come to the ellipsis
and click on it, I can create a brand
new report and we can create reports and
edit thumb right here in the service.
What we're going to do now is we're going
to actually open up Our sales report and
the navigation has moved to the left
rather than at the bottom of the report.
But otherwise it's almost
identical I can edit it and.
Of course, I can interact with it.
I also have a lot of options for
either exporting or sharing the report.
Let's look at the export options first.
So coming to the top, I'm going to click
the drop down next to Export Ondas.
Well, as Pdf and Excel, we also have
the option to export to power point.
Now, if you spent hours copy pasting
individual visuals into Power point,
this could be a great time saver.
Now it will take a minute or two.
But once it's created the power point,
if we're automatically downloaded to your
downloads folder, so check that out.
You also have the option to.
Send a link to this report in your teams.
So if you click on that,
you can select the channel that
you want to send the message to.
Alternatively, if you come to the share
option, you can share the report directly.
This is great if you need to share it
with one or two other collaborators.
Developers.
If you want a broad audience,
you can actually get an embed code, and
from there you can share
it on SharePoint online.
You can share it on a website or
portal with a security level log in so
they'll have to actually log in to see it.
Or you could go for
a published to Web public again.
This will give you an embed code,
which you could put in a blogger
on your company website.
But just be aware that that will
be available to the public.
There's no security around that, so
don't use that unless it's public data.
So quite a few options there.
But if you want to make this available to
a broader audience off business users,
probably your best option
is to create an app.
Now that sounds really complicated, but
it isn't an app is really just a container
where we can combine related reports and
dashboards in one place for
easy distribution.
We've got our report, but
we don't actually have a dashboard yet.
So let's first create a dashboard,
and then we'll look at how
we can create the app.
Creating a dashboard in
the service is really easy.
All you need to do is grab the visuals
from whichever reports they sit in and
pin them to a dashboard.
So, for example, if you come to
your mat visual and hover over it,
you see a little pushpin
appears at the top.
Now, this isn't available in desktop only,
in the service.
So if you click the pin visual,
it's going to ask you if you want to pin
it to an existing dashboard or a new one.
I don't have any existing one, so
we're going to create a new one.
I'm going to call it Sales Dash.
Then I'm going to select Pin.
Now.
It's giving me the option to go straight
to the dashboard or create a phone
view because you can view these on
Mobile App as Well, we're just
going to close that for the meantime,
and I'm going to pin something else.
Let's do our orders.
So I'm just going to select the pin and
pin and just close it up again.
We'll do revenue as well, and
let's get something from a different page.
I'm going to come to sales trends.
Alright, that and we're also going
to Pinar Waterfall Chart and Pin.
And this time I want to see the dashboard.
So we're going to click
the goat dashboard button.
There's my brand new dashboard,
really easy to create.
So what's the difference between
a dashboard and a report?
A dashboard is intended as an overview.
You're limited to a single page, and
you don't have the same
level of interactivity.
You'll also notice that the dashboard
is constructed out of a set of tiles so
you don't have the same
flexibility in terms of the size.
So, for example,
if I come to my map chart,
come to the bottom right hand corner.
You get that little white,
double headed arrow.
If I click and drag it down to about
halfway down the waterfall when I release,
it actually goes the whole way down.
So not quite the same flexibility.
But you do end up with
a very neat solution.
If I want to see one of
these visuals in focus mode.
I can still do that if you come up to
your lips, is top right hand corner and
choose open in focus mode.
There we have it and I can exit Focus mode
with your card visuals in the dashboard
view, you actually get additional
option that we don't have.
In reports, If I come to one of my
cards and click the three dots,
there's an option to add alerts.
So, for example, if I wanted to receive
an alert when I hit 1300 orders,
I could click and alert rule and
going specify my criteria.
Really cool.
All right, I'm going to cancel out of
that because I don't actually want to say
that option.
If you click on any of
the visuals in a dashboard,
it will automatically drill down to
show you the full detail in the report
where that visual originally came from.
So that was how we could
create a dashboard.
Now let's see how we create an app.
I'm going to come back to my
sales report workspace and
on the top right hand corner.
You'll see the option to
create app that easy and.
When we click on it, it's going to ask
us what we want to call the APP, and
it's going to ask for a description.
Something called on both sales report.
You can specify a logo and a theme color.
If you come to navigation,
you can also choose by moving these up and
down, whether you wanted to open
the dash first or the report first.
We're happy with Dash, so we're going to
leave that and then coming to permissions.
You can choose who this report is going
to be available to, and you could share
it with your entire organization or
just some specific individuals or groups.
This is just test, so
I'm just going to share it with myself.
I'm just going to pop my
own address in there,
and then I'm going to click,
publish app and
then I'm going to click
publish when it's published.
It will give you a link to that app,
and you can copy that and
paste it into an email to make it easy for
people to access it.
But it's actually pretty easy anyway,
so I'm just going to close that and
now let's see how we would access
an app that had been shared with us.
I'm going to come to APPS
on the left hand side and
at the top right hand corner is
a button to allow us to get our APPs.
I'm going to click on that now,
and this will show me all the APPS
that are available to me now.
The sales report I've only
shared with myself, so
nobody else in my organization
will be able to see that.
But I'm going to go and get that now.
So just click on it and
it will immediately add your selected
app to your APPS to open the app.
We just click on it and
there's my dashboard to drill down.
I can just click on any of the visuals and
that will bring me into my report,
which is completely interactive.
So we've seen how we can publish a power.
BI report to the power BI service, and
from there we can create a dashboard and
a nap for a very user friendly,
interactive experience That brings
us to the end of the course.
But the beginning of your journey
with power Query, power pivot and
power BI Thanks for joining us.
And we wish you powerful success.